Add Scroll to Text Fragment, CORB and CORP Leaks (#7)
xsleaks/wiki: content/docs/attacks/experiments/scroll-to-text-fragment.md

+++
title = "Scroll to Text Fragment"
description = ""
date = "2020-07-21"
category = "attacks"
attacks = [
    "dom property",
]
defenses = [
    "same-site cookies",
    "sec-fetch metadata",
]
menu = "main"
+++

`Scroll to Text Fragment` (STTF) is a new web platform feature that allows users to create a link to any part of a web page text. The fragment `#:~:text=` carries a text snippet that is highlighted and brought into the viewport by the browser. This feature can introduce a new XS-Leak if attackers are able to detect when this behavior occurs. This issue is very similar to the [Scroll to CSS Selector](https://TODO) XS-Leak.

## Expected & Discussed Issues

> In early discussions for the specification of this feature, it was showed several XS-Leaks could be introduced with a naive implementation [^1]. The specification considers various attack scenarios [^3], so does some research from Google [^4]. This is one **possible** XS-Leak browsers would need to be aware of when implementing this feature:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In early discussions for the specification of this feature it was showed several XS-Leaks could be introduced with a naïve implementation [^1]. The specification considers various attack scenarios [^3], so does some research from Google [^4]. This is one **possible** XS-Leak browsers would need to be aware of when implementing this feature:
```

> In early discussions for the specification of this feature, it was showed several XS-Leaks could be introduced with a naive implementation [^1]. The specification considers various attack scenarios [^3], so does some research from Google [^4]. These are some of the **possible** XS-Leaks browsers would need to be aware of when implementing this feature:

Reviewer: This sentence introduces a list "These are some of the possible..." but then there is only one item. Did you plan to add more?

Author: The spec has 4 issues. 2 of them are not XS-Leaks, and the other two we speak about them, but separately (Intersection Observer is below since it works as of now). I changed the wording to singular in efa284b

> - An attacker can, by embedding a page as an `iframe`, detect whether the paged scrolled to the text by listening to the `onblur` of the parent document. This approach is similar to the [ID Attribute XS-Leak]({{< ref "id-attribute.md" >}}). This scenario is mitigated in Chrome implementation [^5] as it only allows the fragment navigation to occur in top-level navigations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An attacker can, by embedding a page as an `iframe`, detect whether the page scrolled to the text by listening to the `onblur` of the parent document. This approach is similar to the [ID Attribute XS-Leak]({{< ref "id-attribute.md" >}}). This scenario is mitigated in the Chrome implementation [^5] as it only allows the fragment navigation to occur in top-level navigations.
```

## Current Issues

> During the development process of STTF new attacks and tricks to detect a fragment navigation are still found. Some of them still work:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the development process of STTF new attacks and tricks to detect a fragment navigation were found. Some of them still work:
```

- A web page that embeds an attacker-controlled iframe might allow the attacker to determine whether a scroll to the text has occurred. This can be done using the [`IntersectionObserver`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Intersection_Observer_API) API [^2] [^3] [^4].

> - If a page contains images with [Lazy Loading](https://web.dev/native-lazy-loading/), an attacker might known if a fragment navigation occurred by checking whether an image was cached in the browser by [probing the Cache](https://TODO) (only if the image appears after the navigation). This occurs because [Lazy Loading](https://web.dev/native-lazy-loading/) images are only fetched (and cached) when they appear in the viewport.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If a page contains images with [Lazy Loading](https://web.dev/native-lazy-loading/) an attacker might known if a fragment navigation that included an image occurred by checking whether it was [cached in the browser](https://TODO). This occurs because [Lazy Loading](https://web.dev/native-lazy-loading/) images are only fetched (and cached) when they appear in the viewport.
```

{{< hint warning >}}
`Scroll to Text Fragment` is only available in Chrome. Its [draft](https://wicg.github.io/scroll-to-text-fragment/) specification is under active discussion.
{{< /hint >}}

{{< hint info >}}

> `Scroll to Text Fragment` XS-Leaks allow attackers to extract 1 bit of information at a time as it's only possible to observe whether a group of words is present in a page. This occurs as STTF matching mechanism is based on words, so it attackers won't be able to leak character by character information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Scroll to Text Fragment` XS-Leaks allow attackers to extract 1 bit of information at a time as it's only possible to observe whether a group of words is present in a page. This occurs as STTF matching mechanism is based on words, so attackers won't be able to leak information character by character.
```

{{< /hint >}}

## Why is this a problem?

> Attackers can abuse the principle of the `STTF` to leak private information about the user, since its highly connected with the contents of a web page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Attackers can abuse `STTF` to leak private information about the user since its highly connected with the contents of a web page.
```

### Case Scenarios

> - A user is logged in its National Health System website, where its possible to access information about the user past diseases and health problems. An attacker can lure the user to one of its pages and use `STTF` to possibly infer specific deceases of the user. For example an attacker would find out if the victim suffers of a disease if they detects a page scroll when searching for that pathology name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A user is logged in its National Health System website, where it is possible to access information about the user past diseases and health problems. An attacker can lure the user to one of its pages and use `STTF` to possibly infer specific deceases of the user. For example an attacker would find out if the victim suffers of a disease if they detects a page scroll when searching for that pathology name.
```

> - A user is logged in its National Health System website, where its possible to access information about the user past diseases and health problems. An attacker can lure the user to one of its pages and use `STTF` to possibly infer specific deceases of the user. The attacker will know the user suffers "Diabetes" if it detects a page scroll.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A user is logged in its National Health System website, where its possible to access information about the user past diseases and health problems. An attacker can lure the user to one of its pages and use `STTF` to possibly infer specific deceases of the user. For example an attacker would find out if the victim suffers of a disease if they detects a page scroll when searching for that pathology name.
```
